I actually have the
energetic sessions of the developers
conference this year and actually that
makes a lot of sense because it's the
energies of developers like yourself
that actually made what is the internet
actually happen this session is actually
going to go through and talk a bit about
mac OS networking this is networking in
Mac OS 9 and Mac OS 10 so with that I'd
like to introduce Justin Walker who is
the manager of the Mac os10 networking
team thank you and I've never been
associated with high energies i'm not
sure what Tom meant by that anyway so
let's start what we're going to do today
is talk about networking in our two
systems Mac OS 10 is what I'll cover and
then we'll have lefty come up and give
you his trademarked walkthrough of the
current state of Mac OS 9 networking so
to begin with we'll set the stage by
looking at a diagram that shows you
where we're going to be focusing this is
a diagram of Mac OS 10 which you've
probably seen a couple of times before
and the important part for us is the
networking area which is in kernel of
Mac OS 10 and an important point to note
which we've emphasized before and will
continue to emphasize is this the
colonel and the core OS of Mac OS 10 is
Darwin and Darwin is a public source
operating system
that we want developer involvement in
I'll do my best and maybe we'll get
somebody to crank up the volume anyway
the Darwin OS is a public publicly
available OS and we've got a website set
up for it which you will have heard
about if you hear in on Monday afternoon
in networking just to review we have a
network stack that's based on bsd and in
particular it's been upgraded with in
the last year to a relatively recent
version of freebsd and we're providing
full multihoming and routing
capabilities for both apple talk and for
ipv4 and as part of the upgrade to the
pre bsd code we imported mechanisms to
support firewall and NAT within the
kernel and these are mechanisms as
opposed to full products to support this
so those of you who are developing in
this arena will have the opportunity to
take advantage of that and provide your
own products that use these mechanisms I
want to go over what we've done in the
past year and then talk a little bit
about what's coming up beyond bp4 among
other things we've introduced kernel
extensions PPP support the new stack and
some capabilities that I've always
already mentioned and coming up we'll
talk a little bit about ipv6 IPSec and
in something we're calling mobility for
want of a better term right now so we've
shipped dp1 deep through DP three which
was the
release that contained the new the new
networking stack and these products
included improved carbon OT support
focused on performance and some new
features in February we shipped a kernel
development kit which included support
for Network kernel extensions and
documentation for developing them in DP
for which you've now got a copy of we
have a number of improvements i want to
discuss shared addresses for IP between
the classic environment and mac OS 10
some more carbon and some more
improvements in OT in carbon and a
little bird told us we had to have PPP
so that's in there we've got full dhcp
support both in client and server
including ad hoc networking and we've
been continuing to make progress on a
socket ization of the appletalk toad and
que es are fully supported in DP for and
actually they're a significant part of
the operation of DP for today our
support for shared IP with classic is
done with nke and PPP is also
implemented with NK ease the development
mechanisms in DP 44 kernel extensions
supersede the KDK in a number of areas
so the header files and a documentation
been upgraded to reflect that and coming
up in the future we want to improve
support in this area particularly want
to look at support for new device
families for example for token ring and
improve the way we handle socket and
data length and que es the bottom line
here is feedback from you as developers
is an important aspect of how we plan
and schedule our work
the PPP we're supporting serial
connections in this release specifically
the internal and external modems we use
chat scripts those of you familiar with
bsd and linux style PPP will know what
those are there is a poor man's CCL Dean
reefs will be talking about modem family
support and the networking device
session that comes up Friday morning and
you want to attend that if this is in
your area for API support we have a
socket API that is OT like in the sense
that it directly mirrors the OT PPP
control AP is from Mac OS 9 and those
api's are implemented in our carbon OT
stack configuration the dialer app that
is in the system demos directory on DP
for is handling the UI for configuration
and in addition if you're a glutton for
punishment you can fill in the
traditional bsd flat files but the
intent here is that you either configure
through the dialer api or through
another mechanism that i'll be
discussing in a little bit also our aim
over the long haul is to support PPP
over whatever the developer and customer
community require particular areas that
we've heard requests for ethernet and
dsl and the support will be integrated
in with the rest of PPP so for example
the dialer will be able to recognize the
kinds of devices that support PPP and
the same api's they're used for serial
will work for PPP over ethernet and
other mechanisms
let's talk some about classic networking
by popular demand we've eliminated the
need to provide multiple IP addresses
for each platform one for classic and
others for Mac os10 the configuration is
dictated by Mac OS 10 and it's based on
whatever interfaces are in use in the
base system but no user configuration is
required the classic implementation will
gather all of the configuration
parameters they are important for OT
from Mac OS 10 and install them in in
the configuration database the control
panel is read-only so you can see what
your parameters are but you need not
modify it you cannot modify them and as
I'll show in a minute the reliance here
is on OT for routing so any any packet
transmission is handled fully by OT as
far as the IP stack is concerned in Mac
OS 10 the implementation splits the flow
of packets below the 10 stacks so that
they are not directly involved in packet
traffic's so let me take a look at the
operation of this mechanism got the
classic application with the OT stack
relatively unchanged it opens up a
special socket and binds to a chosen
network device and installs an nke which
will be used to handle outbound traffic
from OT the different colors indicates
the direction of flow so a packet going
out from OT will be
written into the socket socket nke will
look at the packet and determine whether
it is destined for the wire or gets
essentially looped back to to the 10
stack likewise when network when network
traffic comes in through the device it's
intercepted by an N ke and based on
information within a packet a decision
is made whether it goes upstream to the
10 stack or whether it's handed off to
the classic stack by having via this
special socket the same thing happens
for apple talk except that in the case
of apple talk there's no there's no
combination of addresses each stack is
fully separate and independent now let's
take a look at how TCP and UDP traffic
is handled the OT stack has been
modified to handle pork sharing which
means that we treat both stacks as using
the same port address space for both TC
for both tcp and UDP when there's an OT
bind call comes into OT it is directed
down through the socket and then over to
the IP stack to do a bind within within
the 10 stack and if that succeeds the
success is propagated back up the stack
to OT and the normal OT operations
continue so for example if you wanted to
run a web web server with in OT and
there was not one running on 10 you can
fire it up and it will take over port 80
and all traffic to port 80 will be
diverted to classic if if the bind fails
or the port reserved fails then the bind
will fail and the operation
will not succeed moving to carbon we've
done a lot of work on performance and
we're now at a position where when we
run same tests on carbon on 10 and on
Mac OS 9 on the same platform we get
similar performance as far as we can
measure it's on a par the support for
control api's is there based on the OTP
the OT PPP api's from Mac OS 9 one point
that we want to make for developers
using OT in carbon is that you can't
make assumptions about thread behavior
the way you could in Mac OS 9 you have
to use atomic operations and make make
sure you're using the proper and early
notification procedures to interlock
operation reason for that is that no te
online uses cooperate cooperative
threading cooperative task operations
where as on Mac os10 threads are
pre-emptive in Apple talk we've updated
carbon and ot to handle a number of new
mechanisms server provider api's we
support the zip we support DDP endpoints
and we support the NBP mapper api's
apple has decided that this that apple
talk is a legacy protocol and we're not
going to put any more effort into it so
in particular that means no a pap or ATP
support and as always we listen so if
you have concerns about this you will
need to talk to developer relations and
marketing and so they can give us the
proper direction
finally we fixed a bunch of bugs and
it's very stable if you saw the demos of
Internet Explorer using carbon that was
all done over the carbon OT we've got
dhcp DHCP support in the p4 its full
client and server so you can act either
as either it's our c compliant with all
of the musts of 2131 implemented and
most of the shoulds in addition the dhcp
engine will handle ad hoc or zero comp
networking if the dhcp server you're
trying to contact doesn't respond then
we will auto configure an address for
you in the range that's been dictated by
the IETF and the DHCP engine will
continue to probe for for DHCP servers
and in the case that it eventually finds
one that auto configured address will
remain in use so existing connections
and existing programs will continue to
run but it can now the system can now
function based on its DHCP addresses as
well in addition we'll be looking at
more integration with the zeroconf work
that's going on in the IETF and I think
lefty will have some more to say about
dynamic dns support and the direction
that we're heading there
beyond ep 4 we're looking at something
we're calling mobility just for having a
simple phrase to capture it what we're
looking at is mechanisms that we can put
in place to simplify configuration
change and management we want to be able
to change the address without a reboot
we want to be able to put the system to
sleep wake it up have it deal with
changing networking environments around
it and with net configuration change in
general as might be forced by say a user
running a configuration panel we're
bringing in a native support for the Mac
network setup api's I'll talk a little
bit more about that later and we're
implementing ipv6 and ipsec and we've
got two sessions tomorrow to discuss
that in more detail so let's look at
what this mobility stuff is we want to
be able to live in a dynamic environment
and things like the Energy Star
requirements from EPA powerbooks other
portable mechanisms can move around or
go to sleep wake up and find in the
environment change we want to provide
the ability to make those transitions
smooth and adapt automatically to the
new environment as it's found by the
system so let's look at a really
colorful diagram starting from the
bottom and sort of going from the
outside moving in below the colonel
boundary we've got protocol stacks and
device devices which will produce events
at various sorts indicating detected
change somebody unplug the ethernet
cable from your box or
you move from an environment where base
station a is in control to an
environment where base station B is in
control an event indicating that will
have to propagate up so we're putting in
place ap is to let that happen what we
support we will support applications
that modify the configuration in such a
way that this is a unified set of
mechanisms and we won't want to allow
applications to request and receive
notifications when certain aspects of
your network environment and other
system configuration information changes
and at the center of all this is a
configuration demon it manages a cache
of information like IP address active
network devices and so on and it manages
a list of requests from interested
applications for notification so let's
look at some of the details one of the
components of this is the network setup
api's and that one of the first clients
of this will be our new network control
panel and this allows us to have a
common view of configuration information
and interlock access to that information
so that multiple applications could be
modifying modifying this information or
watching for modification at the same
time another component which I indicated
earlier was Colonel event delivery these
are events that will come up from
network devices and networks tax as
things change and finally that central
engine is the configuration demon it's a
it's a demon that runs as long as the
system is up we're building a plug-in
architecture so we can extend it
dynamically it detects changes from
devices by waiting for a band
it can detect changes based on action
from applications like the control panel
and system components like PPP can
notify it when something changes for
example a link comes up or links a link
goes down and pieces of data that are
kept and affected by these events
include default routes IP addresses dns
information and so on we have AP is that
allow an application to register to get
notifications when certain kinds of
events occur and we have AP is that
allow the applications that modify this
data to notify the rest of the system
when a change has been made so to go
back just briefly to put into a picture
again events come up from below are
cached in the config demons cash and
trigger notifications that can go to
interested applications and we have a
mechanism with the network setup API is
to let control panels and similar
applications modify and display current
configuration information in the future
we're going to work towards a more
integrated system of configuration
management the aim is to get seamless
changes supported for examples you can
use airport in a live environment and
track track base station change and
alike one of the interesting areas for a
developer is how to handle how to handle
a change like this there are issues of
security do you want to believe exactly
what the information you received from
the network tells you or do you have to
provide a filter of some kind
and prompt the user for information it's
a complicated problem I have no idea how
complex it is but it doesn't seem to
lend itself to an easy solution another
issue we're going to look at moving
forward is I the IETF mobile IP support
both for ipv4 and for ipv6 and again I'm
soliciting input talk to me talk to the
rest of our team talk to the developer
relations guys and marketing give us
your input as to what you think is
needed in this arena IP is kind of the
Vic lettuce protocol these days and
there are good reasons to think about
changing the IETF has a new generation
of IP and it's called ipv6 support in
Mac OS 10 is on the way and we'll be
talking more about that tomorrow and
both for ipsec and for ipv6 tomorrow
we'll tell you more about how to get
access to a package which includes both
the protocol sets tools and libraries
and headers as well as a kernel that
supports it so that you can begin to
experiment for those of you who want to
get down and dirty the implementation we
use comes from cam a it's a project
based on a consortium of Japanese
manufacturers who are very interested in
propagating ipv6 they've done a whole
lot of work on on these protocols and
they're currently the de facto
implementation for all of the bsd
projects and we're adapting it to use
for mac OS 10 check the web developer
website under mac OS 10 for details
tomorrow
and now with that I'll hand it over to
lefty to talk about Mac OS 9 thanks
Justin hi everybody has it been a year
already good grief so I'm David
schlessinger I'm the manager of the mac
OS 9 networking team and I'm going to
talk a little about what we did last
year we're going to do the thing I guess
the Justin was referring to when he
talked about trademarking the talk we do
it every year we go through the list of
what developers have requested and where
we stand on those requests and then I'm
going to give you some idea of some of
the things that we're looking at working
on now so what did we do last year we
came out with two sort of general
releases of open transport we had an
open transport 252 and we had various
flavors of open transport 2.6 and if
you've got software update active you
probably got me each and every one of
them so 25 to shift with mac OS 9 and
one of the big changes that we made
there was that finally after having been
out for several years we upgraded our
core streams and TCP implementations the
extremes in TCP that had been in open
transport prior to OS 9 actually dated
all the way back to the original version
of open transport and it had become more
and more difficult to maintain and we
were missing out on a lot of features
that the folks over at mint had had been
putting in and basically we took all of
the old stuff out and put all new stuff
in and that was a very major change went
a lot more smoothly than we thought it
might so we were pretty happy with that
we have learned a lot of that dhcp we
thought dhcp was pretty straightforward
we were wrong boy there are lots of
varying interpretations of little points
in dhcp it seems there are lots of
corner cases that we have me quite
thought of
but I think we may have found every
single one but I'm hoping PPC over IP
now this is this is something that I was
I'm very excited about a half of them
have been around for a while now but
they're limited to appletalk networks
which really places a real strict limit
on the context in which you can use them
what we did in OS 9 is we expanded the
PPC protocol to work over a substrate of
IP so instead of only being limited to
doing Apple scripting remote Apple
scripting in the context of your Apple
talk network you can now do it across
the internet you can effectively run an
apple script or send Apple events that
will affect a machine all the way across
the country or around the world and this
gives a lot of power and a lot of
flexibility particularly the people like
systems administrators ISPs all kinds of
applications for this so that's a very
exciting i addition more DHCP fixes we
found out that DHCP doesn't really mesh
with wireless all that well at least in
the way that we originally envisioned it
and we've had lots and lots of little
tiny modifications here and there lots
of special cases to make all of that
work more smoothly and I really think
it's working a lot better now we're
pretty happy with it at this point hmm
too much network setup 1.1 we introduced
network setup in mac OS 85 and this was
a planned upgrade we had mostly bug
fixes in there we reduced open transport
from six libraries down to two thereby
freeing up valuable real estates in your
extensions folder and and over 250 bug
fixes so all kinds of things are working
better now it's a lot more stable we've
got a lot of performance improvements
for some kind of peculiar cases we ran
into
so lots of good stuff went into 25 to 26
is essentially what we call a dot
release it's got a bunch of bug fixes
and specifically it shipped with mac OS
9 0 190 290 390 for and it may keep
shipping for a while yet I don't know 32
bugs fixed all told i sat down and
counted them and guess what they're
mostly dhcp fixes so but it's working
better than ever we're happy with that
and if you have any dhcp problems be
sure to see me right after the
presentation okay so here's here's the
trademarked part I don't know how many
of you were here three years ago when I
first did this but this is a list that
Richard Ford who was in our marketing
guy compiled I guess about four years
ago and if you've been paying attention
you'll notice that the size of the type
is probably tripled since the first time
I used it we've got 51 items on this
list right here and if that seems like a
lot you weren't here four years ago
because we had I think a hundred and
seventy-five so every year I go through
and I tell people what on this list
we've been working on and as we get them
done I take them off and the list get
shorter and shorter in the typeface gets
bigger and bigger and eventually I'm
going to have like one item in 48 point
type at any rate here are the things
that we managed to do over the last year
we've got better admin utilities a
network assistant particularly Apple
events over IP I mentioned I p personal
file sharing and again both of these
things PPC over IP Apple events over IP
IP personal file sharing are all in line
with the strategy that we've been
following over the past several years
appletalk was a fine idea it was a good
thing it's out of date it's nobody's
using it really except in very limited
contexts and it's not we're not where
things are going and networking clearly
so in order to preserve the valuable
aspects that
we put into appletalk way back when and
there are many of those we have been
transferring some of the most important
uses of appletalk file sharing Apple
events and what have you so that they
can operate in an internet environment
and PPC over IP and IP file-sharing are
just two examples of that but this is
this is really a core strategy for us
okay what's left still got a bunch of
things there now we have limited
engineering bandwidth and as I said this
list is four years old and I thought it
was like a really good time at this
point to sort of step back and say well
you know here are a bunch of things and
we haven't gotten any of these in the
last four years in my best estimate what
are the ones that probably are not worth
the effort for us right now and this is
pretty much what I came up with nobody's
screamed good okay great anyway
appletalk multihoming appletalk grabbing
we've had these in the past we had a
product called a Polly internet router
once upon a time which I actually
supported I don't see a lot of call for
that I certainly have not had anybody
ask me for a DSP optimizations and I
don't know how long ATM enhancements and
kind of thing I don't see us doing a lot
of built-in kind of file system specific
clients I don't see a calm toolbox
replacement on the horizon I'm afraid I
TX ipx / PPP ISDN multi-link PPP more of
the same so these are things that we
basically decided are not going to
remain on our list anymore so I've taken
the liberty of exercising them and
here's what we have less than here's
what we're working on right now
obviously right at the top of the list
bug fixes we never have enough bug fixes
yes
okay thank you we I'm glad to have that
feedback you know this is remember this
is this is our take on things from where
we're standing and if something I say
doesn't make any sense let me know it
doesn't make any sense and i'm happy to
rethink it bugfixes DNS SEC is something
that we're looking at Justin referred to
dynamic dns a little earlier but dynamic
dns and DNS SEC really interlink you
don't want to be dynamically updating
names of networked entities out there
unless you've got some kind of kind of
security associated with it so I don't
see us doing the one without the other
IP multihoming is something that people
have been requesting for I don't know
how long we are actively working on it
right now we have prototyped
implementations various places that are
doing various things and we're making a
lot of progress in that space IP second
ipv6 justin is referred to previously
and I'm going to go into those in just a
little more detail here but I want to
save the really good stuff for tomorrow
when we got sessions dedicated to both
of those subjects we are working on a
unified control panel for networking so
that rather than having to deal with
seven different ones you've only got to
deal with one and we've demonstrated
various incarnations of that as time has
gone on plug and play IP auto
configuration is sort of a long way of
saying ipv6 and again tomorrow in the
ipv6 session I'm going to go into a lot
of detail about what that's all about
and why it's important then why you
should care and finally our tepee PPP
compression this isn't just RTP it's IP
UDP TCP RTP header compression for
serial lengths which is a real
performance enhancement for applications
like streaming media and what have you
so these are the things were actively
engaged in these days I wanted to break
this out in a little more readable
format but this is
roughly or order of priorities on this
thing and there's a reason for that I'd
be multihoming an ipsec it turns out our
prerequisites for doing ipv6 so in order
to get daddy and I have to get these in
first now these are these are features
that have value in their own right but
they had the list because I can't do
what I really want to do until I do
those things first multihoming we've
talked about IPSec is going to become a
very important technology if you're not
familiar with ipsec you really ought to
get familiar with it right now all of
the proliferation of wireless devices
has created a situation where all of you
folks with airport cards are beaming all
kinds of information all over the place
and we had a little we had a little
experiment a while back when we first
got our set of base stations and airport
cards over at Apple we sat out in the
parking lot with one to see if like we
could see what was going you bet so
we're very careful about using dpns and
limiting who can use which base stations
but security over networking is very
important and that's the point you
should grasp here people spend a lot of
money on fire walls but once you put a
wireless card in your laptop yeah your
firewall is not doing you a lot of good
at that point so this is very important
we're going to talk more about this
tomorrow multicast DNS this is
interesting we have now the ability
we've had for a while for a bunch of
people to sit down in a room and do a
kind of ad hoc networking you know you
can use wireless cards you can use I are
you can actually hook people up to a hub
if you want to do it that way one of the
problems that you run into is that in an
environment in an IT environment
specifically where you're dynamically
configuring addresses it's very
difficult to do if not impossible to do
that mapping from name to address I
don't want people to have to remember
that my IP number is 17 dots something
that's something that's something I
would much rather have them remember
that my name
the name of my machine is lefty apple
com or whatever multicast DNS gives you
a way to provide dns service in ad-hoc
environments without having a dedicated
dns server and in effect every machine
in the ad hoc network operates as its
own kind of mini dns server for the
entities that are registered within the
context of that node we're working on
thread callable open transport and I'll
go into a little more detail on that
ipv6 justin is mentioned I'll talk a
little more finally async appletalk
initialization which I've been told
doesn't have a lot of developer value
but I think anybody who's like ever
closed their laptop and opened it up
again and had to wait 40 seconds for it
to come back well tell you that it
actually does have some value to them
okay see I was right okay multihoming
we're looking at a very minimal
implementation of multihoming here I'm
not proposing bringing a full router to
your Macintosh because you don't want
the H I anyway trust me if you want bhi
there are nice third-party products that
can actually do this to you but what
we're proposing here is essentially a
limited multihoming with no forwarding
capability the assumption being that
I've got a bunch of network interface is
connected to my machine I say one of
them is my default route and all of the
others I make grabbing decisions based
on the IP address and the subnet mask
pretty easy i am the two together every
incoming packet i look to see if it
matches that subnet if it does it goes
there if it doesn't it goes out the
default and that's pretty easy doesn't
require any human interface at all and
we figure this will probably do the
trick for probably ninety percent of the
people who are interested in this
because it's people who are interested
in being on an ethernet while having an
airport card active or what have you and
nobody nobody's asking you to run a
router on their Macintosh really so this
is something that we actually can
deliver that will not create a lot of a
chai impact or a lot of confusion for
people in it
the valuable capability they don't have
right now ipsec I've talked a little
about already what we're proposing
delivering here is a basic framework to
allow you the developer to develop
applications that utilize IPSec
functionality we are not developed we
are not delivering an actual IPSec
product here what we are delivering is
in effect the core functionality
maintaining the security policy database
that kind of thing what you have to
supply as the developer is the actual
key management logic if you want to have
Ike then you've got to you've got to
implement it on top of what we give you
you've got to deliver the actual
protocol arbitration we deliver just the
core we're going to have more details on
that at the ipsec session and that is
330 tomorrow next door ok multicast DNS
I already talked a little bit about it's
an extension of standard DNS that's
being worked on by in large part by the
IETF being led by one of our engineers
here Stuart Cheshire again it's intended
to support ad-hoc networks it's not
solving the same problem as dynamic it's
solving a similar problem the dynamic
dns but not in at all the same way
effectively we're putting a multicast
dns kind of microserver into each
macintosh and you will register names
with this server in an analogous way to
the way that you register NDP names now
you'll do it through a mapper object so
the analogy is is pretty straightforward
there ok we're looking at making open
transport callable from MP threads now
it turns out that this is one of those
things that also has prerequisites the
thing that we basically needed to do to
make all of this work was get rid of
open transport reliance on Apple shared
library manager which was a fine idea
way back one once upon a time but it's
been supplanted by CFM
essentially unsupportable we're hoping
that very few people use it and if you
are using it right now we hope you'll
stop soon the reason that we want to do
this is basically to lay the groundwork
so that we can put as an alternative to
the standard o tapi two sockets
interface on top of open transport
there's no sense in my doing that unless
it's semantically accurate when compared
with a UNIX machine running the same
api's so I need to have some kind of
real robust threading in there in order
to do that and that's what the goal of
this essentially is ipv6 next-generation
internet there are a lot of reasons that
I'm not going to get into in great
detail today because I've got a big long
presentation on this for tomorrow a lot
of reasons why you should be interested
in ipv6 there people talk about the
address space being exhausted that's not
true it's not getting exhausted it's
just been dabbling misallocated all
along the big problem that we face right
now is a combinatorial routing problem
every time war nodes get added to the
into the internet that's more things
that more routers have to remember and
the real problem is that ipv4 addresses
carry no inherent routing information in
them the router has to remember
everything just based on the IP address
ipv6 just to give you a quick preview
gives you the capability of constructing
addresses in such a way that they
actually carry routing information in
them there are other points of ipv6 that
simplify and speed up all kinds of acts
all kinds of aspects of using the
internet and we're going to talk in
detail about that tomorrow at five so I
hope you'll come to that if you've got
an interest in I hope you do again async
appletalk initialization we
substantially reduced boot and wake time
and about time too okay I want to talk
very quickly about where we're going on
remote access
so the main feature that we brought out
with remote access in the last year was
whereas we had previously shipped only a
client version we're now shipping full
client server this is basically the same
remote access product that went out in a
box once upon a time that people paid
good money for it's now part of the
regular operating system distribution
the plans that we've got in the upcoming
year are mostly around PPP multi-homing
and that's in line with our work on
multihoming for the rest of open
transport as I mentioned earlier we're
working on the advanced header
compression that's specified in what is
it RFC 2349 I guess and elsewhere we're
working on support for the extensible
authentication protocol which is being
more widely used and it's been requested
by a number of developers we are working
on giving you finer control over the
framing that's applied to the byte
stream coming through remote access
which will simplify implementation of
alternative links for people who are
doing things like pppoe and what have
you and again we're looking at adding
ipv6 support in there as well okay so
time to talk about endangered species as
I do every year there are some things I
would like to have go away I don't think
anybody much uses them I'm here to ask
you to let me know if I'm grossly wrong
about these things i'm pretty sure that
mac IP is not being very heavily used
we've been carrying it around for a lot
of years it's tunneling IP through Apple
talk and it's just not a wonderful idea
it places all kinds of limitations and
restrictions on things it would simplify
our lives considerably if that could
just go away nobody's told me it can but
if you have a different opinion you
should definitely let us know this is an
old one you've heard before preps files
they're still going away okay I know I
know that all of you have been working
very very hard on getting onto the
network setup database API sand that's
that's what you should be doing I am
proposing actually getting rid of the
preps
this time around and again if somebody
has a major objection to that they
should definitely let us know because I
don't want to cause problems but i do
want to simplify matters in remote
access it's about time that we said
goodbye to the apple remote access
protocol i don't see any real need
really i would have done it last year
okay well that's that's for sure then
okay so we've got some additional
resources that relate to the various
points that we've mentioned here there's
the mac OS ipv6 and ipsec package which
you'll be able to find under the mac OS
page on developer apple com of the
project com a home page is at wwwcom net
the ipv6 forum is at ww ipv6 org Mentats
home page if you're interested in
learning more about the core code that
goes into open transport is it meant I
meant at calm and the ipv6 conformance
testing information is at tawheed org we
have related sessions we've got this one
right now which is certainly related but
you've probably missed most of it by now
tomorrow we've got IP second mac OS at
three thirty in the room next door
followed immediately by ipv6 in mac OS
and both of those I think are going to
be well worth attending these are
largely going to take the form of
technology introductions and overview so
if you're not familiar with ipsec or
you're not familiar with ipv6 and you
want to get more information these are
really good sessions for you to be
attending there's gonna be a lot of a
lot of interesting and informative stuff
there also Dean Reese is going to be
having the i/o kit networking hardware
seminar at ten-thirty in the morning on
friday in this room and finally I really
strongly encourage everybody who has an
opinion to share to come to the NMC
feedback forum it used to be pretty
years we had 14 9 and 14 10 but we've
unified those as well this year so if
you want to tell us what a great job
we're doing or tell us what a bad job
we're doing or something in between come
to room j1 Thursday 1030am for the NMC
feedback form and contact information
I'm I'm lefty Justin Walker manages the
Makah less networking group Tom wire is
our guy in world wide developer
relations they're all our email
addresses we love to hear from people as
long as it's not too abusive or even if
it is if it's you know if it's like well
thought out or creative and now I'd like
to bring Justin and the Mac os10
networking teams and the mac OS 9 work
networking teams all up on stage and we
can do our QA thanks much
you